Update RStudios to R-IDE (#663)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/getting-started/studios.md

---
title: "Studios for interactive analysis"
description: "Creating interactive analysis Studios for Jupyter, R-IDE, VS Code, and more"
date: "24 Feb 2025"
tags: [platform, studios, jupyter, r-ide, xpra, vscode, conda]
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

> [Studios](../studios/overview) allows users to host a variety of container images directly in Seqera Platform compute environments for analysis using popular environments including [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/) (Python) and an [R-IDE](https://github.com/seqeralabs/r-ide) (R), [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) IDEs, and [Xpra](https://xpra.org/index.html) remote desktops. Each Studio session provides a dedicated interactive environment that encapsulates the live environment.

Reviewer: @justinegeffen Notebook or environment?

> [Studios](../studios/overview) allows users to host a variety of container images directly in Seqera Platform compute environments for analysis using popular environments including [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/) (Python) and an [R-IDE](https://posit.co/products/open-source/rstudio/) (R), [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) IDEs, and [Xpra](https://xpra.org/index.html) remote desktops. Each Studio session provides a dedicated interactive environment that encapsulates the live environment.

Author: ```suggestion
[Studios](../studios/overview) allows users to host a variety of container images directly in Seqera Platform compute environments for analysis using popular environments including [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/) (Python) and an [R-IDE](https://github.com/seqeralabs/r-ide) (R), [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) IDEs, and [Xpra](https://xpra.org/index.html) remote desktops. Each Studio session provides a dedicated interactive environment that encapsulates the live environment.
```

To share a link to the running Studio session with collaborators inside your workspace, select the options menu for your Jupyter Studio session, then select **Copy Studio URL**. Using this link, other authenticated users can access the session directly to collaborate in real time.

## R-IDE: Analyze RNASeq data and differential expression statistics 

> An R-IDE enables interactive analysis using R libraries and tools. For example, Shiny for R enables you to render functions in a reactive application and build a custom user interface to explore your data. The public data used in this section consists of RNA sequencing data that was processed by the *nf-core/rnaseq* pipeline to quantify gene expression, followed by *nf-core/differentialabundance* to derive differential expression statistics. This section demonstrates how to create a Studio to perform further analysis with these results from cloud storage. One of these outputs is an RShiny application that can be deployed for interactive analysis.

Reviewer: "One of these outputs is **a** web app..."

```suggestion
An R-IDE enables interactive analysis using R libraries and tools. For example, Shiny for R enables you to render functions in a reactive application and build a custom user interface to explore your data. The public data used in this section consists of RNA sequencing data that was processed by the *nf-core/rnaseq* pipeline to quantify gene expression, followed by *nf-core/differentialabundance* to derive differential expression statistics. This section demonstrates how to create a Studio to perform further analysis with these results from cloud storage. One of these outputs is a web app application that can be deployed for interactive analysis.
```

To share a link to the running Studio session with collaborators inside your workspace, select the options menu for your Jupyter Studio session, then select **Copy Studio URL**. Using this link, other authenticated users can access the session directly to collaborate in real time.

## R-IDE: Analyze RNASeq data and differential expression statistics 

> R-IDE notebooks enable interactive analysis using R libraries and tools. For example, Shiny for R enables you to render functions in a reactive application and build a custom user interface to explore your data. The public data used in this section consists of RNA sequencing data that was processed by the *nf-core/rnaseq* pipeline to quantify gene expression, followed by *nf-core/differentialabundance* to derive differential expression statistics. This section demonstrates how to create a Studio to perform further analysis with these results from cloud storage. One of these outputs is an RShiny application that can be deployed for interactive analysis.

Author: ```suggestion
An R-IDE enables interactive analysis using R libraries and tools. For example, Shiny for R enables you to render functions in a reactive application and build a custom user interface to explore your data. The public data used in this section consists of RNA sequencing data that was processed by the *nf-core/rnaseq* pipeline to quantify gene expression, followed by *nf-core/differentialabundance* to derive differential expression statistics. This section demonstrates how to create a Studio to perform further analysis with these results from cloud storage. One of these outputs is an RShiny application that can be deployed for interactive analysis.
```

<details>
<summary>R script individual steps</summary>

>     1. Configure the R-IDE session with installed packages, including [ShinyNGS](https://github.com/pinin4fjords/shinyngs):

Reviewer: @justinegeffen Notebook or environment?
